README.md, before:

# talib-pure

A pure Python implementation of TA-Lib (Technical Analysis Library) with a focus on performance and compatibility.

## Overview

`talib-pure` aims to provide the same functionality as the popular TA-Lib library but implemented entirely in pure Python using NumPy for performance. This eliminates the need for complex C library dependencies while maintaining high performance through optimized NumPy operations.

**Disclaimer**: This is an independent implementation inspired by TA-Lib. It is not affiliated with, endorsed by, or connected to the original TA-Lib project. The technical analysis algorithms implemented here are based on publicly available mathematical formulas and are compatible with TA-Lib's function signatures for ease of migration.

## Features

- **Pure Python implementation** (no C dependencies)
- **TA-Lib compatible** function signatures
- **Multiple performance backends:**
  - Default NumPy implementation
  - Optimized cumsum algorithm (3x faster, no dependencies)
  - Numba JIT compilation (5-10x faster)
- **Automatic backend selection** for optimal performance
- **Easy installation** via pip
- **Comprehensive test suite** comparing outputs with original TA-Lib
- **Built-in performance benchmarking** tools

## Installation

### Basic Installation

```bash
# From PyPI (when published)
pip install talib-pure

# From source
git clone https://github.com/houseofai/talib-pure.git
cd talib-pure
pip install -e .
```

### Performance Optimizations (Recommended)

```bash
# Install with Numba for 5-10x speedup
pip install "talib-pure[numba]"

# Install development dependencies
pip install "talib-pure[dev]"
```

## Quick Start

```python
import numpy as np
from talib_pure import SMA

# Create sample price data
close_prices = np.random.uniform(100, 200, 100)

# Calculate Simple Moving Average with default period (30)
sma = SMA(close_prices)

# Calculate SMA with custom period
sma_20 = SMA(close_prices, timeperiod=20)

print(f"SMA values: {sma[-5:]}")  # Last 5 values
```

## Performance Optimization 🚀

talib-pure can match or exceed TA-Lib's performance using optional optimization backends:

```python
from talib_pure import SMA_auto

# Automatic backend selection (recommended)
sma = SMA_auto(close_prices, timeperiod=30, backend='auto')

# Or choose specific backend
from talib_pure import SMA_cumsum, SMA_numba

sma_fast = SMA_cumsum(close_prices, timeperiod=30)    # 3x faster, no deps
sma_faster = SMA_numba(close_prices, timeperiod=30)   # 5-10x faster
```

### Performance Comparison

| Implementation | Speed vs Original | Requirements |
|---------------|------------------|--------------|
| **numpy (default)** | 1.0x (baseline) | None |
| **cumsum** | **3.14x faster** | None |
| **numba** | **5-10x faster** | `pip install numba` |

**Benchmark Results (10,000 points):**
- Original (numpy): 0.154ms
- Cumsum: 0.049ms (3.14x faster)
- **Numba: 0.028ms (5.52x faster)** ⭐

**See [PERFORMANCE.md](PERFORMANCE.md) for detailed performance analysis.**

## Implemented Indicators

This library implements a comprehensive set of technical analysis indicators across multiple categories:

### Overlap Studies
SMA, EMA, DEMA, TEMA, TRIMA, WMA, KAMA, MAMA, T3, BBANDS, MA, SAR, SAREXT

### Momentum Indicators
RSI, MACD, MACDEXT, MACDFIX, STOCH, STOCHF, STOCHRSI, ADX, ADXR, APO, AROON, AROONOSC, ATR, BOP, CCI, CMO, DX, MFI, MINUS_DI, MINUS_DM, MOM, PLUS_DI, PLUS_DM, PPO, ROC, ROCP, ROCR, ROCR100, TRIX, ULTOSC, WILLR

### Volume Indicators
AD, ADOSC, OBV

### Volatility Indicators
NATR, TRANGE

### Cycle Indicators
HT_DCPERIOD, HT_DCPHASE, HT_PHASOR, HT_SINE, HT_TRENDLINE, HT_TRENDMODE

### Statistical Functions
BETA, CORREL, LINEARREG, LINEARREG_ANGLE, LINEARREG_INTERCEPT, LINEARREG_SLOPE, STDDEV, TSF, VAR

### Math Operators
MAX, MAXINDEX, MIN, MININDEX, MINMAX, MINMAXINDEX, SUM

### Price Transform
MEDPRICE, MIDPOINT, MIDPRICE, TYPPRICE, WCLPRICE

### Pattern Recognition
60+ candlestick patterns including: Doji, Hammer, Engulfing, Morning Star, Evening Star, Three White Soldiers, and many more.

**See [FUNCTION_IMPLEMENTATIONS.md](FUNCTION_IMPLEMENTATIONS.md) for detailed implementation status.**

## Usage Examples

### Basic Usage

```python
import numpy as np
from talib_pure import SMA

# Generate sample data
close = np.array([1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10], dtype=np.float64)

# Calculate 3-period SMA
result = SMA(close, timeperiod=3)

# Output: [nan nan  2.  3.  4.  5.  6.  7.  8.  9.]
# First (timeperiod-1) values are NaN due to lookback period
```

### Working with Real Market Data

```python
import numpy as np
from talib_pure import SMA

# Example with stock prices
close_prices = np.array([
    150.0, 151.5, 149.0, 153.0, 155.0,
    154.0, 156.5, 158.0, 157.0, 159.5
])

# Calculate 5-period SMA
sma_5 = SMA(close_prices, timeperiod=5)

for i, (price, sma) in enumerate(zip(close_prices, sma_5)):
    if not np.isnan(sma):
        print(f"Day {i+1}: Price={price:.2f}, SMA(5)={sma:.2f}")
```

## Performance Benchmarking

`talib-pure` includes a powerful benchmarking class to compare performance with the original TA-Lib:

```python
import numpy as np
from talib_pure import SMA as SMA_pure
from talib_pure.benchmark import PerformanceMeasurement
import talib

# Create test data
data = np.random.uniform(100, 200, 10000)

# Setup benchmark
bench = PerformanceMeasurement()
bench.add_function("talib-pure SMA", SMA_pure, data, timeperiod=30)
bench.add_function("TA-Lib SMA", talib.SMA, data, timeperiod=30)

# Run benchmark
results = bench.run(iterations=1000)
bench.print_results(results)
```

### Running the Benchmark Script

```bash
python examples/benchmark_sma.py
```

### Benchmark Features

The `PerformanceMeasurement` class provides:

- Measure execution time with configurable iterations and warmup
- Compare multiple functions side-by-side
- Calculate speedup ratios
- Test across different data sizes
- Statistical analysis (mean, median, std dev, min, max)

## Testing

The library includes comprehensive tests that compare outputs with the original TA-Lib:

```bash
# Install test dependencies
pip install -e ".[dev]"

# Run all tests
pytest

# Optional: Install TA-Lib for comparison tests (requires TA-Lib C library)
pip install -e ".[comparison]"

# Run specific test file
pytest tests/test_sma.py

# Run with verbose output
pytest -v

# Run benchmark tests
pytest tests/test_benchmark.py
```

### Test Coverage

- **Comparison Tests**: Verify that outputs match TA-Lib exactly
- **Edge Cases**: Handle empty arrays, insufficient data, etc.
- **Input Validation**: Test error handling for invalid inputs
- **Data Types**: Support for both numpy arrays and Python lists

## API Compatibility

`talib-pure` maintains full API compatibility with TA-Lib:

| Feature | TA-Lib | talib-pure |
|---------|--------|------------|
| Function signatures | ✓ | ✓ |
| Return values | ✓ | ✓ |
| NaN handling | ✓ | ✓ |
| NumPy array support | ✓ | ✓ |
| List support | ✓ | ✓ |
| Default parameters | ✓ | ✓ |

## Development

### Project Structure

```
talib-pure/
├── src/
│   └── talib_pure/
│       ├── __init__.py           # Main package exports
│       ├── backend.py            # Backend selection logic
│       ├── benchmark.py          # Performance measurement tools
│       ├── optimized.py          # Optimized implementations
│       ├── api/                  # Public API layer
│       │   ├── overlap.py        # Overlap studies (SMA, EMA, etc.)
│       │   ├── momentum_indicators.py
│       │   ├── volume_indicators.py
│       │   └── ...
│       └── cpu/                  # CPU/Numba implementations
│           ├── overlap.py        # Numba-optimized overlap studies
│           ├── math_operators.py
│           └── ...
├── tests/                        # Comprehensive test suite
│   ├── test_sma.py
│   ├── test_ema.py
│   └── test_benchmark.py
├── examples/                     # Usage examples
│   ├── benchmark_sma.py
│   └── benchmark_optimized.py
├── development/                  # Development tools
│   ├── accuracy_*.py             # Accuracy comparison scripts
│   ├── benchmark_*.py            # Benchmark scripts
│   └── ACCURACY.md               # Accuracy test results
├── PERFORMANCE.md                # Performance analysis
├── FUNCTION_IMPLEMENTATIONS.md   # Implementation details
├── pyproject.toml
├── LICENSE
└── README.md
```

### Adding New Indicators

To add a new indicator:

1. Implement the function in the appropriate API module (e.g., `api/overlap.py` for overlap studies)
2. Optionally add optimized Numba implementation in the corresponding `cpu/` module
3. Ensure the signature matches TA-Lib exactly
4. Add comparison tests in `tests/`
5. Export the function in `__init__.py`
6. Add documentation and examples

Example:

```python
def EMA(close: Union[np.ndarray, list], timeperiod: int = 30) -> np.ndarray:
    """
    Exponential Moving Average

    Parameters
    ----------
    close : array-like
        Close prices
    timeperiod : int, optional
        Period for EMA (default: 30)

    Returns
    -------
    np.ndarray
        EMA values
    """
    # Implementation here
    pass
```

### Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please:

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Implement your changes with tests
4. Ensure all tests pass
5. Submit a pull request

## Performance

`talib-pure` uses NumPy's optimized functions (like `convolve`) to achieve performance competitive with the C-based TA-Lib. Benchmark results:

- **SMA**: Comparable performance to TA-Lib for large datasets
- **Lookback handling**: Efficient NaN placement
- **Memory usage**: Optimized array operations

Run `python examples/benchmark_sma.py` to see detailed benchmarks on your system.

## Requirements

- Python >= 3.8
- NumPy >= 1.20.0

### Optional Dependencies

- **Testing**: pytest >= 7.0.0, pytest-benchmark >= 4.0.0
- **Performance**: numba >= 0.56.0 (for JIT compilation, 5-10x speedup)
- **Comparison**: TA-Lib >= 0.4.0 (only for development/comparison scripts, requires C library)

## License

MIT License - see LICENSE file for details

## Acknowledgments

This project implements technical analysis algorithms that are publicly available mathematical formulas. We acknowledge and credit:

- **TA-Lib** - The original Technical Analysis Library (Copyright (c) 1999-2024, Mario Fortier)
  - Website: https://ta-lib.org/
  - Python wrapper: https://github.com/TA-Lib/ta-lib-python
  - License: BSD 3-Clause

`talib-pure` is an independent clean-room implementation and is not derived from TA-Lib's source code. All code in this repository is original work licensed under the MIT License (see LICENSE file).

## Roadmap

### Completed ✅
- [x] Core overlap studies (SMA, EMA, DEMA, TEMA, WMA, KAMA, etc.)
- [x] Momentum indicators (RSI, MACD, STOCH, ADX, etc.)
- [x] Volume indicators (OBV, AD, ADOSC)
- [x] Volatility indicators (NATR, TRANGE)
- [x] Pattern recognition (60+ candlestick patterns)
- [x] Cycle indicators (Hilbert Transform functions)
- [x] Statistical functions
- [x] Math operators
- [x] Price transforms
- [x] Comprehensive test framework
- [x] Performance benchmarking tools
- [x] Multiple backend support (NumPy, Numba)

### In Progress 🚧
- [ ] Additional performance optimizations
- [ ] Extended documentation and examples
- [ ] More comprehensive benchmarks

### Future Plans 📋
- [ ] Real-time streaming data support
- [ ] Integration with popular data providers
- [ ] Interactive visualization tools
- [ ] Additional optimization backends

## Support

For issues, questions, or contributions, please visit:
https://github.com/houseofai/talib-pure/issues

## Citation

If you use this library in your research or project, please cite:

```
@software{talib_pure,
  title={talib-pure: Pure Python Technical Analysis Library},
  author={talib-pure contributors},
  url={https://github.com/houseofai/talib-pure},
  year={2025}
}
```

Commit message:

Rename project from talib-pure to numta
This is a comprehensive rename of the entire project:

Package Changes:
- Package name: talib-pure → numta
- Module name: talib_pure → numta
- Source directory: src/talib_pure/ → src/numta/
- Import statements: from talib_pure → from numta

Files Updated:
- pyproject.toml: Package name, description, URLs
- README.md: All references to talib-pure and talib_pure
- GitHub workflows: Updated PyPI URLs
- All examples/: Updated imports and references
- All tests/: Updated imports (121 test files)
- All development/: Updated imports and README
- Documentation: PERFORMANCE.md, FUNCTION_IMPLEMENTATIONS.md

New Branding:
numta = NumPy-based Technical Analysis
- Cleaner, more memorable name
- Clearly conveys the NumPy foundation
- Professional and concise

All functionality remains the same, only naming has changed.

README.md, after:

# numta

A pure Python implementation of TA-Lib (Technical Analysis Library) with a focus on performance and compatibility.

## Overview

`numta` (NumPy Technical Analysis) provides the same functionality as the popular TA-Lib library but implemented entirely in Python using NumPy and Numba for performance. This eliminates the need for complex C library dependencies while maintaining high performance through optimized NumPy operations and JIT compilation.

**Disclaimer**: This is an independent implementation inspired by TA-Lib. It is not affiliated with, endorsed by, or connected to the original TA-Lib project. The technical analysis algorithms implemented here are based on publicly available mathematical formulas and are compatible with TA-Lib's function signatures for ease of migration.

## Features

- **Pure Python implementation** (no C dependencies)
- **TA-Lib compatible** function signatures
- **Multiple performance backends:**
  - Default NumPy implementation
  - Optimized cumsum algorithm (3x faster, no dependencies)
  - Numba JIT compilation (5-10x faster)
- **Automatic backend selection** for optimal performance
- **Easy installation** via pip
- **Comprehensive test suite** comparing outputs with original TA-Lib
- **Built-in performance benchmarking** tools

## Installation

### Basic Installation

```bash
# From PyPI (when published)
pip install numta

# From source
git clone https://github.com/houseofai/numta.git
cd numta
pip install -e .
```

### Performance Optimizations (Recommended)

```bash
# Install with Numba for 5-10x speedup
pip install "numta[numba]"

# Install development dependencies
pip install "numta[dev]"
```

## Quick Start

```python
import numpy as np
from numta import SMA

# Create sample price data
close_prices = np.random.uniform(100, 200, 100)

# Calculate Simple Moving Average with default period (30)
sma = SMA(close_prices)

# Calculate SMA with custom period
sma_20 = SMA(close_prices, timeperiod=20)

print(f"SMA values: {sma[-5:]}")  # Last 5 values
```

## Performance Optimization 🚀

numta can match or exceed TA-Lib's performance using optional optimization backends:

```python
from numta import SMA_auto

# Automatic backend selection (recommended)
sma = SMA_auto(close_prices, timeperiod=30, backend='auto')

# Or choose specific backend
from numta import SMA_cumsum, SMA_numba

sma_fast = SMA_cumsum(close_prices, timeperiod=30)    # 3x faster, no deps
sma_faster = SMA_numba(close_prices, timeperiod=30)   # 5-10x faster
```

### Performance Comparison

| Implementation | Speed vs Original | Requirements |
|---------------|------------------|--------------|
| **numpy (default)** | 1.0x (baseline) | None |
| **cumsum** | **3.14x faster** | None |
| **numba** | **5-10x faster** | `pip install numba` |

**Benchmark Results (10,000 points):**
- Original (numpy): 0.154ms
- Cumsum: 0.049ms (3.14x faster)
- **Numba: 0.028ms (5.52x faster)** ⭐

**See [PERFORMANCE.md](PERFORMANCE.md) for detailed performance analysis.**

## Implemented Indicators

This library implements a comprehensive set of technical analysis indicators across multiple categories:

### Overlap Studies
SMA, EMA, DEMA, TEMA, TRIMA, WMA, KAMA, MAMA, T3, BBANDS, MA, SAR, SAREXT

### Momentum Indicators
RSI, MACD, MACDEXT, MACDFIX, STOCH, STOCHF, STOCHRSI, ADX, ADXR, APO, AROON, AROONOSC, ATR, BOP, CCI, CMO, DX, MFI, MINUS_DI, MINUS_DM, MOM, PLUS_DI, PLUS_DM, PPO, ROC, ROCP, ROCR, ROCR100, TRIX, ULTOSC, WILLR

### Volume Indicators
AD, ADOSC, OBV

### Volatility Indicators
NATR, TRANGE

### Cycle Indicators
HT_DCPERIOD, HT_DCPHASE, HT_PHASOR, HT_SINE, HT_TRENDLINE, HT_TRENDMODE

### Statistical Functions
BETA, CORREL, LINEARREG, LINEARREG_ANGLE, LINEARREG_INTERCEPT, LINEARREG_SLOPE, STDDEV, TSF, VAR

### Math Operators
MAX, MAXINDEX, MIN, MININDEX, MINMAX, MINMAXINDEX, SUM

### Price Transform
MEDPRICE, MIDPOINT, MIDPRICE, TYPPRICE, WCLPRICE

### Pattern Recognition
60+ candlestick patterns including: Doji, Hammer, Engulfing, Morning Star, Evening Star, Three White Soldiers, and many more.

**See [FUNCTION_IMPLEMENTATIONS.md](FUNCTION_IMPLEMENTATIONS.md) for detailed implementation status.**

## Usage Examples

### Basic Usage

```python
import numpy as np
from numta import SMA

# Generate sample data
close = np.array([1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10], dtype=np.float64)

# Calculate 3-period SMA
result = SMA(close, timeperiod=3)

# Output: [nan nan  2.  3.  4.  5.  6.  7.  8.  9.]
# First (timeperiod-1) values are NaN due to lookback period
```

### Working with Real Market Data

```python
import numpy as np
from numta import SMA

# Example with stock prices
close_prices = np.array([
    150.0, 151.5, 149.0, 153.0, 155.0,
    154.0, 156.5, 158.0, 157.0, 159.5
])

# Calculate 5-period SMA
sma_5 = SMA(close_prices, timeperiod=5)

for i, (price, sma) in enumerate(zip(close_prices, sma_5)):
    if not np.isnan(sma):
        print(f"Day {i+1}: Price={price:.2f}, SMA(5)={sma:.2f}")
```

## Performance Benchmarking

`numta` includes a powerful benchmarking class to compare performance with the original TA-Lib:

```python
import numpy as np
from numta import SMA as SMA_numta
from numta.benchmark import PerformanceMeasurement
import talib

# Create test data
data = np.random.uniform(100, 200, 10000)

# Setup benchmark
bench = PerformanceMeasurement()
bench.add_function("numta SMA", SMA_numta, data, timeperiod=30)
bench.add_function("TA-Lib SMA", talib.SMA, data, timeperiod=30)

# Run benchmark
results = bench.run(iterations=1000)
bench.print_results(results)
```

### Running the Benchmark Script

```bash
python examples/benchmark_sma.py
```

### Benchmark Features

The `PerformanceMeasurement` class provides:

- Measure execution time with configurable iterations and warmup
- Compare multiple functions side-by-side
- Calculate speedup ratios
- Test across different data sizes
- Statistical analysis (mean, median, std dev, min, max)

## Testing

The library includes comprehensive tests that compare outputs with the original TA-Lib:

```bash
# Install test dependencies
pip install -e ".[dev]"

# Run all tests
pytest

# Optional: Install TA-Lib for comparison tests (requires TA-Lib C library)
pip install -e ".[comparison]"

# Run specific test file
pytest tests/test_sma.py

# Run with verbose output
pytest -v

# Run benchmark tests
pytest tests/test_benchmark.py
```

### Test Coverage

- **Comparison Tests**: Verify that outputs match TA-Lib exactly
- **Edge Cases**: Handle empty arrays, insufficient data, etc.
- **Input Validation**: Test error handling for invalid inputs
- **Data Types**: Support for both numpy arrays and Python lists

## API Compatibility

`numta` maintains full API compatibility with TA-Lib:

| Feature | TA-Lib | numta |
|---------|--------|------------|
| Function signatures | ✓ | ✓ |
| Return values | ✓ | ✓ |
| NaN handling | ✓ | ✓ |
| NumPy array support | ✓ | ✓ |
| List support | ✓ | ✓ |
| Default parameters | ✓ | ✓ |

## Development

### Project Structure

```
numta/
├── src/
│   └── numta/
│       ├── __init__.py           # Main package exports
│       ├── backend.py            # Backend selection logic
│       ├── benchmark.py          # Performance measurement tools
│       ├── optimized.py          # Optimized implementations
│       ├── api/                  # Public API layer
│       │   ├── overlap.py        # Overlap studies (SMA, EMA, etc.)
│       │   ├── momentum_indicators.py
│       │   ├── volume_indicators.py
│       │   └── ...
│       └── cpu/                  # CPU/Numba implementations
│           ├── overlap.py        # Numba-optimized overlap studies
│           ├── math_operators.py
│           └── ...
├── tests/                        # Comprehensive test suite
│   ├── test_sma.py
│   ├── test_ema.py
│   └── test_benchmark.py
├── examples/                     # Usage examples
│   ├── benchmark_sma.py
│   └── benchmark_optimized.py
├── development/                  # Development tools
│   ├── accuracy_*.py             # Accuracy comparison scripts
│   ├── benchmark_*.py            # Benchmark scripts
│   └── ACCURACY.md               # Accuracy test results
├── PERFORMANCE.md                # Performance analysis
├── FUNCTION_IMPLEMENTATIONS.md   # Implementation details
├── pyproject.toml
├── LICENSE
└── README.md
```

### Adding New Indicators

To add a new indicator:

1. Implement the function in the appropriate API module (e.g., `api/overlap.py` for overlap studies)
2. Optionally add optimized Numba implementation in the corresponding `cpu/` module
3. Ensure the signature matches TA-Lib exactly
4. Add comparison tests in `tests/`
5. Export the function in `__init__.py`
6. Add documentation and examples

Example:

```python
def EMA(close: Union[np.ndarray, list], timeperiod: int = 30) -> np.ndarray:
    """
    Exponential Moving Average

    Parameters
    ----------
    close : array-like
        Close prices
    timeperiod : int, optional
        Period for EMA (default: 30)

    Returns
    -------
    np.ndarray
        EMA values
    """
    # Implementation here
    pass
```

### Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please:

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Implement your changes with tests
4. Ensure all tests pass
5. Submit a pull request

## Performance

`numta` uses NumPy's optimized functions and Numba JIT compilation to achieve performance competitive with the C-based TA-Lib. Benchmark results:

- **SMA**: Comparable performance to TA-Lib for large datasets
- **Lookback handling**: Efficient NaN placement
- **Memory usage**: Optimized array operations

Run `python examples/benchmark_sma.py` to see detailed benchmarks on your system.

## Requirements

- Python >= 3.8
- NumPy >= 1.20.0

### Optional Dependencies

- **Testing**: pytest >= 7.0.0, pytest-benchmark >= 4.0.0
- **Performance**: numba >= 0.56.0 (for JIT compilation, 5-10x speedup)
- **Comparison**: TA-Lib >= 0.4.0 (only for development/comparison scripts, requires C library)

## License

MIT License - see LICENSE file for details

## Acknowledgments

This project implements technical analysis algorithms that are publicly available mathematical formulas. We acknowledge and credit:

- **TA-Lib** - The original Technical Analysis Library (Copyright (c) 1999-2024, Mario Fortier)
  - Website: https://ta-lib.org/
  - Python wrapper: https://github.com/TA-Lib/ta-lib-python
  - License: BSD 3-Clause

`numta` is an independent clean-room implementation and is not derived from TA-Lib's source code. All code in this repository is original work licensed under the MIT License (see LICENSE file).

## Roadmap

### Completed ✅
- [x] Core overlap studies (SMA, EMA, DEMA, TEMA, WMA, KAMA, etc.)
- [x] Momentum indicators (RSI, MACD, STOCH, ADX, etc.)
- [x] Volume indicators (OBV, AD, ADOSC)
- [x] Volatility indicators (NATR, TRANGE)
- [x] Pattern recognition (60+ candlestick patterns)
- [x] Cycle indicators (Hilbert Transform functions)
- [x] Statistical functions
- [x] Math operators
- [x] Price transforms
- [x] Comprehensive test framework
- [x] Performance benchmarking tools
- [x] Multiple backend support (NumPy, Numba)

### In Progress 🚧
- [ ] Additional performance optimizations
- [ ] Extended documentation and examples
- [ ] More comprehensive benchmarks

### Future Plans 📋
- [ ] Real-time streaming data support
- [ ] Integration with popular data providers
- [ ] Interactive visualization tools
- [ ] Additional optimization backends

## Support

For issues, questions, or contributions, please visit:
https://github.com/houseofai/numta/issues

## Citation

If you use this library in your research or project, please cite:

```
@software{numta,
  title={numta: NumPy-based Technical Analysis Library},
  author={numta contributors},
  url={https://github.com/houseofai/numta},
  year={2025}
}
```
